Devin Zhang
248-946-2978 | devzhang@umich.edu | Linkedin | GitHub
Experience
Data Scientist- AI Implementations and Partnerships
General Motors
Sept. 2025– Present
• Led an NLP/RAG pipeline using vector search (ANN) and Databricks’ built in reranking model to map A2MAC1
teardown part descriptions to GM VPPS codes, achieving 92-96% accuracy and reducing manual processing time
from 2 weeks to 15 minutes per vehicle program.
• Co-developed an AWS-based VisBOM platform using OpenSearch for vector search, Neptune for graph-based
relationships, and reranking models to unify PCAR BOM data with Teamcenter images, streamlining executive
design reviews and influencing $10M+ in design decisions.
• Architected a multi-agent RAG system in Databricks to automate low-risk vehicle deviation analysis, cutting
review time from weeks to under 48 hours and enabling data-driven decisions with multi-million dollar impact.
Global Product Development Rotational Program
General Motors
Safety Process Automation Engineer- GSPI
Jun. 2023- Sept. 2025
Sept. 2024- Sept. 2025
• Enhanced the PCEI tool with new in-depth component summaries, connectors, and battery processing, expanding
functionality by 50% and saving 4+ hours of manual verification per test by using Python and MetaPost.
• Created a new injury calculator tool, enhancing functionality to include the processing of CAE crash data,
expanding the number of supported test cases by 30% by using Excel VBA, Python, and MetaPost.
Software Engineer- Sensor Alignment- Perception AI/ML
Jun. 2024- Sept. 2024
• Implemented a data staggering mechanism for different modules, staggering the processing of camera frames
reducing CPU/Memory utilization by 30%.
• Deployed a new Python script that graphs timestamps for all Alignment Process steps mapped to CPU/Memory
consumption over time, reducing the average debugging time by 15%.
Software Engineer- Ultracruise Longitudinal Execution
Jun. 2023- Jun. 2024
• Expanded the ACP4 SIL simulation environment with new software components and vehicle signals using Python,
C/C++, Linux, Git, and the UC Docker environment, increasing UC Longitudinal controls testing coverage.
• Engineered scripts to streamline calibration overrides across hundreds of .c files in the ACP4 MCU simulation
environment, reducing the time spent on overrides by 20%.
Software Developer Intern
BDO Digital
Jan. 2023– Apr. 2023
Remote
• Built the BDO Digital March Madness bracket analyzer screen using C#, ASP.NET, Node.js, and Angular, enabling
over 500+ employees to compare statistics between two teams competing in the March Madness tournament.
• Trained the natural language model for an acronym classification bot, using Microsoft Azure Language Studio,
improving the testing validation percentage by over 15%.
Education
University of Michigan
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
Projects
Ann Arbor, MI
Aug. 2020– May. 2023
Oritech Chatbot
May. 2025– May. 2025
• Developed an AI RAG chat bot using Langchain, OpenAI’s ”text-davinci-003” model, Chroma, and Python to
answer user questions related to Oritech documentation.
• Designed a vector database, chat prompt templates, and Langchain LCEL to find the top three documents related
to the user query and embed the documents into user prompts for more accurate responses.
Technical Skills
Languages: Python, C/C++, Java, C#, SQL (MySQL), JavaScript, HTML/CSS, R, Gherkin
Frameworks: AngularJS, Vue, .Net, Flask, React.js, React Native, jQuery, Bootstrap, Mocha
Developer Tools: Databricks, Linux, Git, Bitbucket, Jenkins, Jira, Confluence, WebdriverIO, Selenium, Node.js
Libraries: Langchain, Pytorch, Tensorflow, OpenCV, pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib
Additional: Multi-Threaded Programming, Object Oriented Programming